As a result of the expansion in the online business especially electronic commerce, numerous varieties of goods and trading are currently offered on internet platforms. Due to the wide variety of goods available for purchase on the Internet market, it is challenging for them to select things that best meet their demands. Recommender systems have shown to be effective tools for assisting users' decisions since they reduce the amount of options, they can choose from by analysing their preferences, needs, and other factors.
Traditional recommender systems base their recommendations on historical user behaviour or similarities between users and the things they are recommending. Three categories can be made out of these, namely content-based filtering, collaborative-based filtering, and hybrid-based recommendation systems. The method collaborative-based filtering analyses customer preferences learnt by the earlier conduct and making suggestions that are complimentary to other users or products. The goal of content-based filtering is to examine the content of user-preferred items and suggest related ones. A hybrid

recommender system combines two or more different types of recommendations. Traditional recommendation systems, however, have limits when a user purchases a relatively small number of goods. If a very big amount of data is required for analysis, a new user or item is introduced. Furthermore, some types of contents like images and texts that are made available by users or items cannot be efficiently represented in traditional recommendation systems.
Recent years have seen research on models based on the deep learning in the realm of recommendation systems. One of the machine learning techniques is called deep learning, and it uses a complex artificial intelligence (AI) network structure. To create high dimensional representations of data for use in solving various issues, deep learning employs a nonlinear structure. It can also handle massive data volumes and a number of multidimensional information kinds, including audio and visual data. Due to the fact that they might utilise content details with reference to individuals, objects and manage features that are of high-dimensional very well, several recommender systems based on DL have improved in terms of efficiency of classic recommendation systems. On the other hand, because existing deep learning approaches handle these aspects on their own, they are limited in their capacity to effectively account for interactions between user and element attributes.
1.3 PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE
The novel recommender system we provide in this research uses a neural network (CNN) with bespoke filters to represent user and item content information. The proposed approach, which is based on CNN, intends to record valuable nonlinear correlations between the goods and consumers, i.e., high dimensional interactions. The proposed technique employs a cross convolutional filter to instruct the convolution layer about the outer product matrix, the feature vectors of the user, and the feature vectors of the objects rather than using a small square filter to maintain and express the associations between users and items. A cross convolution filter merges the Vertical Weight and Horizontal Weight vectors into an overlapping form. In order to produce different useful linear correlations between users and goods, the splitting of an outer product matrix using cross convolutional filters enables the interactions with significant characteristics to be weighted more strongly.
Additionally, this method connects the CNN feature maps directly with the output node rather than using a Multilayer Perceptron, which might provide an excessive fit because to its complex structure. Instead, it uses Global Average Pooling function or maybe Global Maximum Pooling. This will make the overestimation issue less of an issue and enable nonlinear interactions to be used directly in rating forecasting. The suggested method includes a bidirectional encoder representations form transformer for semantic information retrieval from profiles of things like movie names/titles in addition to the structure that was previously mentioned. When new users or goods are introduced, recommender systems

frequently encounter cold start issues since they are unfamiliar to them. Because it could represent the semantic information of the new item profile even if it is unknown, the embedded vector of the item profile created from the pretrained BERT model may minimise the cold start problem in the suggested approach.
Overall, this proposed technique offers a uniqueness in that it can define linear relationships between individuals and objects by running CNNs with cross convolutional filters then it may also minimise the problem of a cold start problem that is not beneficial by employing bidirectional encoder representations from transformer.
Diagrammatic Depiction of the Proposed Method

1.4 PROPOSED ALGORITHM OR METHODOLOGY Cross Convolutional Filters in CNN
1. Input Layer: The first layer of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) which takes in the input data – movies and ratings.
2. Embedding Layer: The layer which concatenates the ratings and movies data and generates an outer product.
3. Convolutional Layer: The output of the embedding layer is taken as the input of this layer. This layer basically applies a set of filters, in our case, a cross convolutional filters in used.
4. Cross Convolutional Filters: These filters are cross-shaped kernel which can detect vertical and horizontal edges of the matrix simultaneously.
5. Pooling Layer: This layer reduces the dimensionality of the feature maps by selecting the most important information. Max pooling technique is used to obtain where the maximum value in each region of the feature map is selected. Average pooling is an approach which calculates the average of the features/portions that are available in the region of feature map that is enclosed by the filter.
6. Predict Layer: This the final layer which produces the output of the model.
